<!-- File: 01-inspiration/README.md -->

# Inspiration

## Terms and topics

Communities of Practice in Open Source Toolkits for the Arts Development
Definition: Communities of practice are groups of individuals who share
a common interest or passion and engage in collective learning,
collaboration, and knowledge exchange to advance their domain. In the
context of open source arts development, this theme examines the role of
communities of practice in fostering creativity, innovation, and skill
development among artists and developers. Factors such as communication
channels, shared values, mentorship, and the balance between formal and
informal structures within these communities can significantly impact
their effectiveness and sustainability.

Motivations of Developers in Open Source Arts Communities Definition:
Various factors that inspire and drive developers to contribute to open
source arts projects. These factors may include intrinsic motivation,
such as the desire for personal growth or creative expression, as well
as extrinsic motivation, such as recognition. Understanding these
motivations can help improve the design and management of open source
arts projects to better engage and retain contributors.

Community Dynamics and Social Practices in Open Source Arts Development
Definition: Role of social practices, community dynamics, and the
structure of communities of practice in shaping the development,
sustainability, and success of open source arts projects. Factors such
as collaboration, communication, and conflict resolution within these
communities can influence the quality and longevity of the projects and
provide insights for future endeavors.

Collective Intelligence in Open Source Arts Development Definition:
Collective intelligence refers to the shared knowledge, insights, and
problem-solving capabilities that emerge from groups of individuals
collaborating, interacting, and exchanging information. In the context
of open source arts development, this theme explores the ways in which
communities harness their collective intelligence to foster innovation,
creativity, and the advancement of projects and initiatives within the
open source arts domain.

## Research Questions

1.  How do social practices, community dynamics, and the structure of
    communities of practice impact the development and sustainability of
    open source software projects in the arts, and what lessons can be
    learned from successful projects to improve collaboration and
    engagement in future endeavors?

2.  What factors contribute to the emergence, growth, and sustainability
    of communities of practice in open source arts development, and how
    do these factors influence the effectiveness and resilience of these
    communities?

3.  How does the Processing community support new contributors in
    overcoming technical, social, or cultural barriers, and what
    strategies or resources are most effective in facilitating their
    integration into the project?

## Bibliography

About the GNU Project—GNU Project—Free Software Foundation. (n.d.).
Retrieved May 1, 2023, from
https://www.gnu.org/gnu/thegnuproject.en.html Foundation, P. (2018, June
8). A Modern Prometheus, The History of Processing by Casey Reas and Ben
Fry. Processing Foundation.
https://medium.com/processing-foundation/a-modern-prometheus-59aed94abe85
Kafai, Y. B., Peppler, K. A., Lemke, J., & Warschauer, M. (2011). Youth,
Technology, and DIY: Developing Participatory Competencies in Creative
Media Production. Review of Research in Education, 35, 89–119. Kelty, C.
M. (2008). Two Bits: The Cultural Significance of Free Software.
https://doi.org/10.1215/9780822389002 Lakhani, K., & Wolf, R. G. (2003).
Why Hackers Do What They Do: Understanding Motivation and Effort in
Free/Open Source Software Projects. SSRN Electronic Journal.
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.443040 Mansoux, A. (n.d.). Sandbox Culture:
A Study of the Application of Free and Open Source Software Licensing
Ideas to Art and Cultural Production. Martinez-Torres, M. R., &
Diaz-Fernandez, M. C. (2014). Current issues and research trends on
open-source software communities. Technology Analysis & Strategic
Management, 26(1), 55–68. https://doi.org/10.1080/09537325.2013.850158
Reas, C., & Fry, B. (2006). Processing: Programming for the media arts.
AI & SOCIETY, 20(4), 526–538. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00146-006-0050-9
The cathedral and the bazaar: Musings on Linux and open source by an
accidental revolutionary. (2002). Choice Reviews Online, 39(05),
39-2841-39–2841. https://doi.org/10.5860/CHOICE.39-2841 Von Krogh, G.,
Spaeth, S., & Lakhani, K. R. (2003). Community, joining, and
specialization in open source software innovation: A case study.
Research Policy, 32(7), 1217–1241.
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0048-7333(03)00050-7 Von Krogh, Haefliger,
Spaeth, & Wallin. (2012). Carrots and Rainbows: Motivation and Social
Practice in Open Source Software Development. MIS Quarterly, 36(2), 649.
https://doi.org/10.2307/41703471 Wenger, E. (1998, July 28). Communities
of Practice: Learning, Meaning, and Identity. Higher Education from
Cambridge University Press; Cambridge University Press.
https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511803932
<!-- File: 02-method/README.md -->

# Method

Focusing in on a large community with more readily available
documentation and a smaller one, such as Tidal Cycles.

Contrast

Combination of qualitative and quantiative methodologies

Interview, Interview guide, Interview plan

<!-- File: 03-data/README.md -->

# Data

Download the alpha forum with this command

    wget --recursive --no-clobber --page-requisites --html-extension --convert-links --restrict-file-names=windows --domains forum.processing.org --no-parent https://forum.processing.org/alpha/

Launch data science dev environment

    docker run -it --rm -p 10000:8888 -v "${PWD}":/home/jovyan/work jupyter/datascience-notebook:2023-05-30

> Here: upload the material you produced and collected, prepare a 10
> minutes presentation to walk us through this (no slides, only by using
> a selection of the material).

## Notes

11900 messages <!-- File: 04-output/README.md -->

# Output

> Here: upload the various iterations of your masters thesis text, as
> well as the images you want to use.
